if you wake up one morning with 1000
times the strength you had the night
before how will you handle delicate
day-to-day tasks everything must seem so
fragile to you since the scale of your
strength has expanded 1,000 times you'd
have to be very careful when you're
shaking someone's hand so you don't end
up breaking their bones or crushing
everyone you hug and using a fork to
pick up a piece of broccoli from a
styrofoam plate without driving the fork
through the plate is going to be as
difficult as brain surgery say the day
comes and you get the chance to save a
damsel in distress falling from a
helicopter so you hold out your arms
hoping to catch her seconds later you
will find yourself holding her lifeless
body what happened
well pressure is force divided by area
the smaller the area the bigger the
pressure this is why we can lift heavy
objects without breaking our skin but a
tiny needle can make us bleed with just
a little poke how the pressure that will
be exerted on her body can be calculated
by force divided by the area on the top
of your arms that comes in contact with
her it doesn't matter if your arms are
strong enough to catch her body without
breaking your bones her spine is not
strong enough to be caught by you
without being damaged even if you rip
off the nearest door to provide a bigger
area to catch her with you still
wouldn't be able to save her anyway
oh remember it's not the fall that kills
her but the sudden stop at the bottom
let's say she's falling from a 32 storey
building about 300 feet and you are 6
feet tall maybe 10 feet on your tippy
toes with your arms above your head
holding a door in hopes of distributing
the pressure across a larger surface
area but all you're doing is essentially
moving the ground up by 10 feet so she's
now falling from 290 feet instead of 300
feet reaching the speed of 137 feet per
second just before impact
not counting air resistance it's the
equivalent of crashing at 94 miles per
hour into a wall with a door in front of
it Oh
doesn't feel good the only thing that
could save her is flying but that power
comes with its own host of scientific
issues if you could fly what you must do
is fly up to her start flying down at
the speed she's falling hold on to her
then gradually slow down until you come
to a complete stop this process requires
a lot of cushion space between the point
she starts falling and the ground every
second you waste on changing into your
superhero costume and flying up to her
height her head is getting that much
closer to the pavement if she's falling
from a high place and you can't get to
her until she's only a few feet above
the ground there's really nothing you
can do other than magically turn the
pavement into marshmallow to allow her
enough time to slowly come to a stop
then break out the chocolate and graham
crackers and you've got s'mores mmm
delicious
now which superpower physics lesson will
you explore next shifting body size and
content super speed flight super
strength immortality and invisibility